Adding a readme for the debugger visualizer sample (#187)
microsoft/VSExtensibility: New_Extensibility_Model/Samples/RegexMatchDebugVisualizer/README.md

## The `Match` visualizer

The next step is to create a `DebuggerVisualizerProvider` class to visualize instances of [`Match`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.regularexpressions.match):

```csharp
[VisualStudioContribution]
internal class RegexMatchDebuggerVisualizerProvider : DebuggerVisualizerProvider
{
    ...
```

If the `Match` type was serializable by Newtonsoft.Json, the visualizer implementation would be extremely simple:

```csharp
public override DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration => ew("Regex Match visualizer", typeof(Match));

public override async Task<IRemoteUserControl> CreateVisualizerAsync(VisualizerTarget isualizerTarget, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
{
    var regexMatch = await visualizerTarget.ObjectSource.RequestDataAsync<Match>(jsonSerializer: null, cancellationToken);
    return new RegexMatchVisualizerUserControl(regexMatch);
}
```

> Unfortunately `Match` is not serializable as-is, so we need a new serializable class [`RegexMatch`](RegexMatchObjectSource/RegexMatch.cs). And we will need to create a *visualizer object source* library to convert the `Match` into a serializable `RegexMatch`, more about this in [a later paragraph](#the-visualizer-object-source). For not let's just update the `RequestDataAsync` call to use `RegexMatch`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately `Match` is not serializable as-is, so we need a new serializable class [`RegexMatch`](RegexMatchObjectSource/RegexMatch.cs). And we will need to create a *visualizer object source* library to convert the `Match` into a serializable `RegexMatch`, more about this in [a later paragraph](#the-visualizer-object-source). For now let's just update the `RequestDataAsync` call to use `RegexMatch`:
```

```csharp
var regexMatch = await visualizerTarget.ObjectSource.RequestDataAsync<RegexMatch>(jsonSerializer: null, cancellationToken);
```

### Adding the remote user control

We now have to create the `RegexMatchVisualizerUserControl` [class](./RegexMatchDebugVisualizer/RegexMatch/RegexMatchVisualizerUserControl.cs) and its associated [XAML file](./RegexMatchDebugVisualizer/RegexMatch/RegexMatchVisualizerUserControl.xaml). This process is described in the [Remote UI documentation](../../../docs/new-extensibility-model/inside-the-sdk/remote-ui.md).

> Every time we create a remote user control like `RegexMatchVisualizerUserControl` we need to configure the corresponding XAML file as embedded resource. In this case, since I placed the XAML file in a subfolder, I also need to use `LogicalName` to make sure the name of the resource matches the full name of the remote user control class. This is all done in the `.csproj` file:

Reviewer: I would put thins inside a warning block since it is something I feel many people will run into problems with.

Author: Unfortunately,as far as I know, we don't have warning blocks available on GitHub docs :-(

The *visualizer object source* assembly will be loaded by the debugger into the process being debugged and will take care of converting the `Match` object into a serializable `RegexMatch`.

I will start creating a `RegexMatchObjectSource` class library targeting `netstandard2.0` and adding a project reference to [Microsoft.VisualStudio.DebuggerVisualizers](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.VisualStudio.DebuggerVisualizers) version 17.6 or newer. Targeting `netstandard2.0` will allow the debugger visualizer to easily work with a large variety of .NET versions.

I will then create a `RegexMatchObjectSource` class extending `VisualizerObjectSource` and will override the `GetData` method to convert the `target` from a `Match` to a `RegexMatch` and use the `VisualizerObjectSource.SerializeAsJson` method to write the value to the `outgoingData` stream.

```csharp
public class RegexMatchObjectSource : VisualizerObjectSource
{
    public override void GetData(object target, Stream outgoingData)
    {
        if (target is Match match)
        {
            RegexMatch result = Convert(match);
            SerializeAsJson(outgoingData, result);
        }
    }

    ...
```

> The `GetData` method is invoked by the debugger when the `RegexMatchDebuggerVisualizerProvider` calls `RequestDataAsync`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GetData` method is invoked by the debugger when the `RegexMatchDebuggerVisualizerProvider` calls `RequestDataAsync` without sending any data.
```

    (Func<Group, string?>?)typeof(Group).GetProperty("Name")?.GetGetMethod().CreateDelegate(typeof(Func<Group, string?>));

...

Name = $"[{GetGroupName?.Invoke(g) ?? i.ToString()}]"
```

### Referencing the visualizer object source from the extension

First, we need to make sure that the *visualizer object source* library is packaged as part of the extension. We can do that in the extension's `.csproj` file:

```xml
  <ItemGroup>
    <Content Include="..\..\..\..\bin\samples\RegexMatchObjectSource\$(Configuration)\netstandard2.0\RegexMatchObjectSource.dll" Link="netstandard2.0\RegexMatchObjectSource.dll">
      <CopyToOutputDirectory>PreserveNewest</CopyToOutputDirectory>
    </Content>
  </ItemGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <ProjectReference Include="..\RegexMatchObjectSource\RegexMatchObjectSource.csproj" ReferenceOutputAssembly="false" />
  </ItemGroup>
```

The `ProjectReference` guarantees that the *visualizer object source* library is built before the extension and the `Content` item makes sure that the *visualizer object source* DLL is copied into the `netstandard2.0` extension's subfolder where it will be discoverable by the debugger.

> I have decided to use `ReferenceOutputAssembly="false"` to avoid a dependency of the extension assembly from the *visualizer object source* one. Because of this, I will need to

Reviewer: Should you add an explanation as to why you chose to not include it as a dependency?

1. link the `RegexMatch.cs` file (and the related `RegexCapture` and `RegexGroup` ones) so that they are available in both projects:

```xml
  <ItemGroup>
    <Compile Include="..\RegexMatchObjectSource\RegexGroup.cs" Link="SharedFiles\RegexGroup.cs" />
    <Compile Include="..\RegexMatchObjectSource\RegexCapture.cs" Link="SharedFiles\RegexCapture.cs" />
    <Compile Include="..\RegexMatchObjectSource\RegexMatch.cs" Link="SharedFiles\RegexMatch.cs" />
  </ItemGroup>
```

2. Reference the `RegexMatchObjectSource` from the `DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration` using its assembly-qualified name:

```csharp
    public override DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration => new("Regex Match visualizer", typeof(Match))
    {
        VisualizerObjectSourceType = new("Microsoft.VisualStudio.Gladstone.RegexMatchVisualizer.ObjectSource.RegexMatchObjectSource, RegexMatchObjectSource"),
    };
```

> Using `ReferenceOutputAssembly="false"` to avoid the dependency from the *visualizer object source* library allows the extension to use conditional compilation (`#if`) to have slightly different definitions of [`RegexMatch`](./RegexMatchObjectSource/RegexMatch.cs) in the two projects. If I hadn't used `ReferenceOutputAssembly="false"`, I could have simplified the `DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration` to:

Reviewer: Based on the comment above, I would move this paragraph to be after the first sentence of line 111.

Author: I cleaned this up a bit.

```csharp
    public override DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration DebuggerVisualizerProviderConfiguration => new("Regex Match visualizer", typeof(Match))
    {
        VisualizerObjectSourceType = new(typeof(RegexMatchObjectSource)),
    };
```

## The `MatchCollection` visualizer

Now that the `Match` visualizer is complete, we can add a second visualizer for the [`MatchCollection`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.regularexpressions.matchcollection) class. The process is exactly the same: I have created [a new `DebuggerVisualizerProvider`](./RegexMatchDebugVisualizer/RegexMatchCollection/RegexMatchCollectionDebuggerVisualizerProvider.cs) and its [remote user control](./RegexMatchDebugVisualizer/RegexMatchCollection/RegexMatchCollectionVisualizerUserControl.cs). I also added [a new `VisualizerObjectSource`](./RegexMatchObjectSource/RegexMatchCollectionObjectSource.cs) to the *visualizer object source* library.

> Since the `MatchCollection` could contain many entry, I have implemented the *visualizer object source* using the `TransferData` method instead of `GetData`: `TransferData` accepts a parameter which allows my visualizer to query the collection entries one by one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `MatchCollection` could contain many entries, I have implemented the *visualizer object source* using the `TransferData` method instead of `GetData`: `TransferData` accepts a parameter which allows my visualizer to query the collection entries one by one:
```

> Since the `MatchCollection` could contain many entry, I have implemented the *visualizer object source* using the `TransferData` method instead of `GetData`: `TransferData` accepts a parameter which allows my visualizer to query the collection entries one by one:

Reviewer: I think it might be worth adding a reference to our visualizer docs for [handling long serialization time](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/visualizer-advanced-scenarios?view=vs-2022#handling-long-serialization-time), since it covers more in depth the reason that you would choose `TransferData` over `GetData`.

Author: I rather not link the docs for the old visualizers as they may create confusion. I added the relevant info on timeouts here instead

```csharp
public override void TransferData(object target, Stream incomingData, Stream outgoingData)
{
    var index = (int)DeserializeFromJson(incomingData, typeof(int))!;
    if (target is MatchCollection matchCollection && index < matchCollection.Count)
    {
        var result = RegexMatchObjectSource.Convert(matchCollection[index]);
        result.Name = $"[{index}]";
        SerializeAsJson(outgoingData, result);
    }
    else
    {
        SerializeAsJson(outgoingData, null);
    }
}
```

> The `DebuggerVisualizerProvider`, instead of using the `VisualizerTarget` to request the value to the *visualizer object source*, passes the `VisualizerTarget` to the remote user control. This allows the remote user control to asynchronously request the collection entries without delaying the display of the visualizer UI to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using the `VisualizerTarget` directly, the `DebuggerVisualizerProvider` passes it to the remote user control so that it can request the data itself. This allows the remote user control to asynchronously request the collection entries without delaying the display of the visualizer UI to the user.
```
